Assam bjv joins us now from a
Palestinian solidarity rally in front of
the icj Assam and of course many
distinguished speakers speaking both in
court also we had the South African
Minister of Justice speaking outside of
Court Ronald Lola after it was all over
uh it's been as step said a historic
day well that's exactly what hundreds of
people who've been Gathering here in the
he have been telling us that this is a
historic day people have been coming
here from all walks of life from all
parts of Europe to show solidarity with
not just what's been presented by South
Africa but also against everyone who
they accuse of standing with Israel in
what they see as genocide happening in
Gaza to discuss it further with us is
Jeremy Corin a prominent politician and
a former leader of the labor party thank
you very much for taking the time Jeremy
uh what was your impression of what we
saw today in the court I've been was
there for the hold of the presentation
this morning morning it took over 3
hours it was brilliantly prepared and
brilliantly put forward analytical
non-sensational and minimalist in terms
of uh images that were shown there were
one or two photographs shown on a big
screen but no great length of it because
they said this is a serious case we want
to outline a what's happening in Gaza
but B where it is in breach of the
convention on genocide and pointing out
that the statements made by Benyamin
Netanyahu and others are of collective
punishment of the people of Gaza in
which he said after October the 7th that
there are no innocent civilians in Gaza
for example and so I think the case
they've made is very strong at the end
of it the um last representative from
South
Africa made the request for an interim
order to be sent out by the court which
would be demanding an end to the
fighting now that's not going to be made
tomorrow that's for sure because
obviously they're got to hear Israel's
response and then deliberate on it but I
hope it is very soon because if
international law is to mean anything
and a government like the government of
South Africa makes that request then
there's got to be a response but at the
international court of justice yes while
this is happening Israel does enjoy the
support of by and large major chunks of
the International Community the United
States the UK government for instance uh
where there seems to be nothing that has
moved the needle whether it's the
killing of people whether it's the court
court cases so do you think anything is
going to change if there is a decision
in favor of the South African
application everything is incremental
every time you step out on the street
and wave a Palestinian flag and say Stop
The Killing of Palestinian people every
time somebody me or anyone else speaks
up in a parliament that's an incremental
difference and the arguments about the
arms trade the supply of weapons to
Israel and the fact that President Biden
sought to bypass Congress because he was
afraid of the reaction there in order to
send more weapons to Israel indicates a
weakness in his position and so this
weekend we've got demonstrations all
over the world there's a voice of
ordinary people who are just appalled
what's going on and also I want to say
thank you to those people in Israel that
signed in support of the South African
application to the international court
of justice and those in Israel that have
been demonstrating against the
occupation of the West Bank and and of
Gaza because they want also to be able
to live in peace it's not going to
happen tomorrow that I know but if we
just walk by on the other side and
ignore what's happening to the
Palestinian people then we become
complicit in 24 hours Israel is going to
present its case and uh it is going to
say that what is happening it is
expected is happening as a reaction to
What Hamas did on October the 7th uh it
amounts to the worst crime that has
happened against the Jewish people uh
since the Holocaust is what Israel's
stance has been so do you not somewhat
agree agree with what Israel is saying
and what its actions on the grounds are
well the South African case started off
by saying how much they were appalled
and regret what happened on October the
7th we all do absolutely but nobody can
call the killing of all these thousands
of people and destruction of 70% of all
the housing in Gaza a proportionate
response it is not it is an attack on
the entire Palestinian population and
when Israeli ministers announced that
they want the population of Gaza to be
reduced from 2 million to 200,000 where
are those people going to go are they
going to create a new Gaza in the SII
was that is the direction in which we're
going is the world going to do nothing
about it but continue to supply arms to
Israel or say look this has got to stop
the Palestinian people have got to be
able to live in peace jemy Goldin thank
you very much for speaking to us there
you have it uh that has been by and
large the sentiment here uh as hundreds
of people have been Gathering outside uh
the international court of justice that
Israel has to stop uh what it is
carrying out in Gaza there people from
all over the world who've been Gathering
here and saying that they agree with
what South Africa is telling the world
and the international court of justice
and people who Palestinians who are
living here in the Netherlands have been
telling us that just this fact that
Israel has to defend itself in front of
an international court for what they
call genocide is a win in itself ass son
been D there for us at the he thank you